BD-3164, BD-3165 - AI Liquid Assistant overview and prompt guide (#7596)
braze-inc/braze-docs: _docs/_user_guide/sage_ai/generative_ai/ai_liquid/ai_liquid_prompts.md

---
nav_title: About Prompting
article_title: About Prompting the AI Liquid Assistant
description: "This article will cover how to prompt the AI Liquid Assistant, including best practices and example prompts."
page_type: reference
page_order: 0
hidden: true
permalink: /ai_liquid_prompts/
noindex: true
---

# About prompting the AI Liquid Assistant

> Prompting is the process of giving the AI Liquid Assistant clear instructions on what you want it to do.

> The AI Liquid Assistant is designed to function as a best-in-class marketer that's an expert at using Braze and Liquid to create impactful marketing messages, but it still requires guidance on your particular use cases or questions.
> 
> There is no single correct way to prompt the assistant, and you can always add further deatils to your prompts during your conversation. This means you don't need to spend a lot of time crafting the "perfect" initial prompt. However, you can get the most out of the assistant by following some best practices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AI Liquid Assistant is designed to function as a best-in-class marketer who's an expert at using Braze and Liquid to create impactful marketing messages, but it still requires guidance on your particular use cases or questions.

There is no single correct way to prompt the assistant, and you can always add further details to your prompts during your conversation. This means you don't need to spend a lot of time crafting the "perfect" initial prompt. However, you can get the most out of the assistant by following some best practices.
```

Reviewer: Do we need to add an important alert here too to flag that this is in beta? 🤔

Author: Good catch! I'll add that in

## Best practices for effective prompting

### Use natural language

The AI Liquid Assistant is trained to understand natural language. Chat with it as you would with a coworker when asking for help. This makes it easier for the assistant to comprehend your needs and provide accurate assistance.

### Give context

> Providing context helps the AI Liquid Assistant understand the bigger picture surrounding your project. It's helpful to include context such as:
> 
> - Your company name and industry
> - A compaign you're working on, such as Black Friday or holiday sales
> - Your goal, ushc as increasing your click-through rate
> - Specific custom attributes you want to include in your message

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Providing context helps the AI Liquid Assistant understand the bigger picture surrounding your project. It's helpful to include context such as:

- Your company name and industry
- A campaign you're working on, such as Black Friday or holiday sales
- Your goal, such as increasing your click-through rate
- Specific custom attributes you want to include in your message
```

Including context in your prompt helps the assistant tailor its responses to better suit your needs. You can also include details from your campaign, message brief, or brainstorming document to bring the assistant up to speed.

### Be specific

The AI Liquid Assistant can ask follow-up questions, but providing details upfront can lead to more precise results sooner. Consider including details such as:

> 
> - Any known preferences or requirements for the message
> - Instructions on how to handle situations, such as a lack of responses from the message recipient or fallback message options
> - When asking for Liquid that uses Connected Content, documentation for the API endpoint or a sample API response or both

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- Any known preferences or requirements for the message
- Instructions on how to handle situations, such as a lack of responses from the message recipient or fallback message options
- When asking for Liquid that uses Connected Content, documentation for the API endpoint, a sample API response, or both
```
